Okay,
I think we're all right now. Um,
yeah. So, um, Pitty Internet managed to
stress out OBS enough with encoding
pressure that it finally crashed.
Stupid thing.
I was basically just looking at um
I was pretty much just trying to see how
uh you know if they discuss advantage
norm at Oh,
rolling discounted sum of rewards.
Okay.
Okay, so the reward scaling thing is
interesting.
What would that do?
Darling must have arrived. No, it just
managed to crash the damn stream because
um
it actually it's funny. It doesn't even
show me as online now. Stupid thing.
Like it's just like every single time it
blips the stream like that, it creates a
spike on the encoding of OBS. it like
basically spikes it to max uh because
OBS tries to keep up
and eventually it'll finally manage to
crash it. I just saw it happen right
there actually.
It just goes to 12 KB uh kbps
for a second or two.
are you clumped?
This is a nice paper.
So essentially,
I'm trying to figure out something that
that will not buy us the reward
and will work for
It's not really about working for a
range of rewards. It's mostly about
working for a range of reward sparities.
I figure it's worth playing with this a
little bit.
If I get something promising, I'll sweep
it, right?
And if I get an actual reasonable
experiment, then I'll clean it up.
Okay, it's going to remove the clamp
precision kernel. That's fine. That was
part of it. Anyways,
reward stats as GPU Eight.
Hey, Arch.
It'll be interesting to sweep
with Um,
could very well change hypers though.
Value loss is at zero.
Okay,
we just got the score.
Oh,
we going to latch on.
That was something for a second there.
Okay.
Well, we don't have very many runs.
Oh, they've all died.
Interesting.
Well, we have to figure that out.
Oh, it's actually trying.
Interesting.
the most possible.
I don't know what you mean by that.
Okay.
I mean, it depends what you want to do
with the end.
I Okay.
Lovely.
And lovely.
We got to figure that one out then.
doing something.
Would that be worth sweeping?
Even if you shuffled the maze,
the end goal is in the same place, but
the path is different. Arch
possibly worth sweeping Yes.
I don't really need to sweep maze. I
just need to sweep breakout, don't I?
Yeah. So, I don't actually need to um
I don't actually have to worry
about sweeping the other ones. If I
sweep breakout first, if it doesn't work
here, it won't work elsewhere.
Okay,
that is much better, right?
I think that has potential. In fact,
we don't even have to sweep breakout
now, right? Because the same hypers
solve it in the short amount of time.
We just have to sweep the maze out.
getting sweet maze from this.
That's crazy.
Okay,
I'm getting a little tired as you can
tell.
Most likely getting a little tired.
Okay.
We should sweep the mazes with this
and with CL on
That works, right?
Take this
date buffer.
Okay,
that's fine, right?
I think that's fine.
Few rectangles to label.
Okay,
so this needs to be swept.
Jesus
Okay. So, we'll sweep on this box.
The only thing left is figuring out
what's wrong with this box.
Why is it scrolling me to the bottom?
Stupid thing.
and stupid Dang.
Really?
Wait, did they fix it? No, they didn't.
Right.
Yeah, it's still a shitty uh npm.
They have a shell script on.
Oh, wait. No, they did fix it. Hang on.
Go away, npm.
They did fix it.
Oops.
Hang on. We got to do this. We got to do
this.
This.
Okay.
We'll double check a couple things.
Okay, we have one experiment done.
Okay. So it is GPU 2.
Hopefully we can run a 5GPU sweep
stable. That would be nice.
Also,
may as well go check on
check on this.
still at 32.
And we've got it's got 30 experiments
more
Okay.
That's annoying. It is a hardware issue.
Yeah, that's very irritating.
Annoying.
Very annoying.
Great. So, even though we have the back
the box back up, we can't [__] use
it.
That really sucks. Like two weeks into
the summer.
That really, really, really sucks.
Like that alone is going to be several
thousand in additional computer expenses
for the summer,
possibly more.
[__] annoying, man.
right side. In a few hours we will have
many
remote. I'm on the machine. Yes,
it's got um
somehow there's a hardware failure on
one of the GPUs.
I don't know if G if the whole GPU is
dead or what, but or if it's like I mean
nothing would have jostled that machine.
These are also the these machines are
like a mega pain in the ass to do
maintenance on as Oh,
Okay. Well, we can't do anything about
that, right?
and of course OBS cuts off. Man, the
nothing [__] work days are really
demotivating.
This so far is still okay.
Okay. So, so far
we are okay. so far.
I need to think of where wires could be
getting crossed though with our
algorithm.
So like let's kind of just sit here and
think through stuff out loud a little
bit.
It's pretty much guaranteed that a
correct
uh implementation of state sets should
massively massively help, right?
It is pretty crazy that we're getting
32% on Soabong without curriculum.
Actually, how the hell is that even
happening?
Where's Pryo?
Barely any prioritization either.
Just giant mini batches.
I see. So, it's just taking as big mini
batches as possible. H
just brute forcing it.
I mean, that's crazy that that even
works.
What about with mazes?
We think it's possible that um
you get some solves with the vanilla
algorithm. I guess maybe.
I mean, we should still be seeing a
massive difference quite quickly.
Let me think through the advantage thing
real quick.
You're trying to have the same amount of
signal to be learned in each batch
with advantage scaling, right?
Okay. Yeah, that does seem really bad.
They're training on a whole lot of
noise.
I can't see how that would specifically
combined with state sets to mess up
though, right?
in my mind. State set should basically
instantly be giving you a huge boost to
Perf.
Are you biasing the task?
What are the best parameters?
Let's actually just check
internet. I swear.
Okay.
So, state buffer size
basically same arch and everything.
ish on the pryo.
Bigger correction. It looks like
I need to move these annoying ones out.
What's this? Break out. Breakout
baseline.
I might even want to just go pull the
data from this fast box just in case
right now.
Yeah, let's just go do that to be safe.
Oops.
I swear it's like unusable today. It's
literally every couple minutes dropping
my internet.
The question is, do they diverge?
Doesn't look like it, does it?
Maybe.
It might
or just Okay.
Corrections.
quite similar.
Oh, this is somewhat concerning.
It hasn't found the uh the bigger nets
yet.
Still quite a gap.
Okay, this is kind of cool.
So, we're shifting.
Looks like lambda gets shifted to the
left a little bit.
That's interesting. I have to think
about why that happens.
Make sure we're not looking at noise.
Well, everything else seems pretty
consistent.
Value function call. There's like a lot
of weird crap going on here, man.
We got way too many hypers.
Wait, what's this?
Weird
on a hyperparameter with CL. Hell,
it's really tough to just do like
partial sweeps, man.
I mean, arguably, yeah, we need to do um
we're going to need to do something
about this for sure, but I don't know
what yet.
Welcome.
A lot's going to depend on this sweep.
This got recommended on YouTube. The
idea around here is watch cutting edge
research being done live.
Sometimes it's quick, sometimes it's
slow.
Currently, we're looking at some results
and trying to think about a new
algorithm.
It's based on setting the simulator
state during training.
um to areas that should be the highest
learnability.
I think Jess, it's more so like
it's concerning to me because in my mind
the
there should be a really really obvious
difference in Perf here.
and I'm not seeing it at the very least.
Okay, so we know we match up to
like the short training runs we know
basically just match.
Maybe that's the thing to focus on.
If the hypothesis is that this helps on
long runs.
That would just be like a more powerful
version of the current. Okay, fine. But
why does it not help on short runs?
It should
That seems weird to me.
Do we have to sweep without
prioritization?
Is our implicit PL just too good?
Is our implicit seal just too good?
I guess that would be the next thing to
run, right? So, we let this run until
later tonight
and then I run the same sweep without
any form of
prioritized replay.
Okay. And then basically
if that gap is big,
then it just means that our prioritized
replay is really good.
But it shouldn't be because, and let me
show you why it shouldn't be.
Oh, this is an interesting point right
here, isn't it?
Hang on.
This is 256.
It's supposed to be the case that
prioritization is quite weak with longer
horizons.
That's kind of a crazy point right
there.
It actually looks a lot more promising
disregarding that one singular point.
Doesn't it?
How's the prioritization again?
Bio alpha.
See, it's like I'd be pretty surprised
if it's really dependent on
prioritization because look, you have
this point at 30% way down Here.
What's this doing?
We're 15% on mazes so far.
Not great.
I guess it's possible it only needs a
little prioritization, but that seems
very weird to me. Very, very weird to
me.
The mini batch sizes alone shouldn't be
enough to explain this either.
I guess how the hell is our baseline
working is a good question.
So, it's like why is state sets not
doing better? But then also, how the
hell is our baseline doing this well?
If our baseline just sucked,
this would be the expected result. But
what keeps happening
is we just keep sweeping the baseline
and the baseline ends up doing really
[__] well after a sweep somehow.
They have a little bit more priority on
the best points.
We're still at 32, right?
Okay. So, it's only like 30 experiments
off.
It would be fairly surprising
if it just got good all of a sudden.
So, I think we are going to want to run
this sweep for a little longer,
maybe until later tonight.
I mean, hang on. This is still a big
gap, right? This is still a big big PF
gap.
And we can sweep without prioritization.
You know what?
Let's just assume
Well, it's tough to assume that. Um,
hey. Huh? Something's weird here. Wait.
4 is.3.
Huh?
Uhuh. Wait. Something's wrong.
31. Where's 3? Oh, it's down here. I see
it.
Cost is 33.
Yeah. Okay.
That's difficult to justify then as just
being pryo.
How the hell is our baseline this good?
That's interesting.
Oh, okay. Look, it is cranking compute.
It's trying to comp it is trying to
compensate by cranking up compute.
Okay, I think that there is likely going
to be a difference. We will see.
I'm a little concerned that it hasn't
found the biggest model size yet.
We're going to have to let it sweep a
little longer, but
let's say that we find that there is at
least some sort of significant
difference to this thing, right?
If we find no significant difference,
we have to then go like really try to
sweep the maze task and figure out like
if somehow the baseline can solve that
thing as well.
If there is a significant difference,
but it doesn't help at
at small or at short experiment run
length, what does that mean?
Well, that's really [__] weird, isn't
it?
I think at that point
we fix some hypers. I hate doing it this
way, but this otherwise these take
forever. So we fix some hypers
to a reasonable experiment maybe
and
we attempt to
ablate just the curriculum elements like
Jess said.
I think that we have to do it that way.
We'll get a couple more experiments in
before that. Luckily,
I think that's what it's going to have
to be.
Wait, is it kneeling pryo on?
Wonder if a kneeling pry is on.
What paper do you recommend?
So, the three most relevant papers to
what I'm doing now
are Go Explore, Prioritized Level
Replay, and Prioritized Experience
Replay.
The algorithm I'm working on, it's
similar to prioritize level replay where
you select levels that you think you can
learn more from except that it is done
at the level of trajectory segments. So
you don't have to start at the beginning
of a level. You can start anywhere and
you can get a new starting point every
couple hundred steps.
So it should be much much more powerful
than prioritized level replay. Um we're
getting some mixed experimental results.
We have some very very good indicators,
but then something is screwy. Okay.
I guess we can test this if I'm
suspicious.
Yeah, there are lots of tests we can run
here.
Okay.
This I mean that just means this
probably isn't it, right?
the internet, man.
That'll be fixed in a few days.
You're basically making
the levels where it performs worse. It's
not where it performs worse.
It's much more. It's better than that.
It's the levels where um
it's levels that have high absolute
advantage.
So, it's basically levels where it's
getting a surprising outcome.
It's yes, it's a very powerful form of
curriculum learning,
but it's not level based. Like, this is
the cool thing with my algorithm. It
should work on basically any
environment.
And it will have um it should not really
have any impact on like out of sample
levels. It should not make any worse
than it would be normally. It should
just push everything up a
You see it this. So we're not really
looking at generalization for this.
That's not the point. Um
generalization is considered separate
from this. The point of this is uh
essentially very hard exploration or
credit assignment problems.
So imagine that you get a reward one in
10 million steps. That's very very hard
to learn with uh your typical algorithm
setup. Huffer can learn that basically
instantly
with this new state set algorithm
because as soon as you get that lucky
reward that will get that state or in
the states that lead up to that will get
stored in a buffer as high advantage and
you will very heavily reset towards the
states that are around when you got that
reward
and then you basically learn how to do
the end of the puzzle.
We see this very very well actually on
sparse maze environments.
Oh [__]
Well, that would do it.
Great bug then.
What did you tell him to do? Bat.
Okay, this does look like straight bug.
Wait, am I on the right branch? Did I
really [__] this up so badly?
If this is how I have it, then it's
completely like, duh, I'm just a [__]
We'll go look.
Um, so I graduated my PhD
close to three years ago at this point.
I run Puffer full-time. Puffer is a
private lab. We have all open- source
reinforcement learning tools. I would
have never been able to develop this
stuff in the context of a PhD. It is far
far more engineering than is respectable
for a good scientist to be doing. Let's
just say uh the progress in the last
three years has been absolutely
astounding. I mean we're doing things
now that I would have considered
impossible a few years ago. So I'm very
happy with what I'm doing now.
And uh we also do a few things for
companies as well. I mean it's a private
lab. All our stuff is open source. We
build custom simulators for companies.
is we do dedicated R&D
pretty much just if you want really
really high performance RL and the
latest insights in the field we're the
place to be.
Thank you.
What is meant by sane RL?
Um, if you spent any time in the field,
you will find that the field is not
sane.
Most paper results do not replicate.
They sure as hell don't replicate when
you try them on different environments.
Everything is incredibly brittle. The
code is crap. GPUs sit on 5%
utilization.
Uh hyperparameters are never ever tuned.
Whole host of problems with the field.
With Puffer,
we have very very stable baselines
across a ton of environments.
uh much more so than the project by that
exact name. We have training up to 20
million steps per second on a single
GPU. We have the best hyperparameter
sweep algorithm out there. We have
several core algorithm and um
architecture breakthroughs.
We have environments that run at
millions and millions of steps per
second on a single CPU core.
We've got stable multiGPU training and
multiGPU sweeps.
Huge huge amount of progress.
You'll see if you see this stream keep
blipping every um few sec every few
minutes or whatever. The internet here
is awful. At least it's been awful the
last few days. I have Starlink on order,
so that'll be fixed within a few days.
Nothing I can really do for now is just
Comcast for you.
Hey, this is just getting ridiculous.
It's literally every couple minutes.
Well, we'll end stream a little early
today because I'm sick of dealing with
this. But I have a couple last things I
want to try.
um I mean bet I want it to be correct. I
want it to be fast. And then ideally I
want to figure out some minimal set of
observations or some reasonably easy to
encode set of observations where we can
get at least some sort of acceptable
score and iterate from there.
uh score is measured from the normal
policy distribution. Jess, I checked
that.
That was like one of the first things I
did in the algo design.
A fraction of the environments are set
aside to be vanilla environments without
state sets and logs only come from those
environments.
I checked on it.
Is it the IPC one? So, I've seen that on
my own box, but it was hardware. Like,
that was a hardware failure.
What did you miss in stream died?
Dream died for like one minute and I was
back. Um,
we got lots of experiments running.
Stuff is mixed. We're going to see
I wanted to check something here, right?
Yeah, it was I wanted to check explore
beta.
Yeah. Yeah. So, explore beta optimum is
very low. Actually, look at this. Yeah,
it's already it's at zero basically.
It already figured that out.
It looks like it passes.
Oh, yeah. That one.
Yeah, that's a legit bug bet. I have to
merge that. Um,
yeah, I have to merge that. But luckily
the branch the experiments where that
would be a really big problem are not
affected by this. So we're okay for now.
It's just using score, right?
Oh, actually that would explain [__] for
selfplay
potentially. Okay, I got to ask um
Spencer on That
Is that a new best?
That is a new best, isn't it?
32 and 5800.
37 and 50. Okay,
man.
Like how?
Right.
Like actually how
tiny pryo Alpha co as well.
Did it find it? Did find 512 horizon.
I mean, it looks to me like it's just
trying to crank the hell
And now I got to plug the camera back
in.
Stupid thing.
Everything's just breaking today.
Not really great.
Huh?
[__] man.
47.
What's the upper limit for size?
What did I do for size?
I think I did
35.
35 was this bar solve result.
In some sense, I guess it easier. It is
easier if this thing just doesn't
[__] work, right?
Did I reply to your thing, Jess? Uh, it
we sweep both of the coefficients.
I mean, it's definitely not working as
expected, right?
Have enough signal to solve.
There's a script in there. I think you
basically just need to figure out the um
the random chance solve rate. I think 47
is like 250 mil plus steps though before
you get one reward.
I think that tomorrow we just pick like
um
we pick a version of the maze that
trains fast and we just iterate on it
relentlessly.
Okay, I got like 15 minutes.
I think that's what we do tomorrow. I'm
going to let the sweep finish.
We'll probably have to stop the um the
vast container for the night and then
tomorrow I think we'll just take the
5090 and we'll just iterate a [__] ton
on maze
until we have something that seems
better.
or possibly
you can't iterate on so right.
Um, dent solving is not only not
interesting bet, it's also just like a
really bad test for this type of
algorithm.
I guess technically we could try
we could try the soabon one.
Maybe we try both.
Definitely something up with the mazes
though.
I also wonder how this changes with like
one maze versus many.
Okay, I think we're going to try mazes
tomorrow and we're going to try to get
ourselves like a quick loop iteration.
I'm going to have to come up with some
things to look for in the algorithm.
This really should be a massive massive
change. And it felt like it was for um
the sparse maze environment.
I don't know, Jess. It's really
obnoxious because like we kind of got
screwed on sweeps twice in a row
where like we had a result where we
basically just added the method and it
seemed like it just worked amazingly and
then we ran a really big sweep on the
baseline and it turns out that the
baseline can just do it. Now I don't
know if for sure that's what's going to
happen fully. Um, I'm definitely I'm
going to let this run for a few more
hours and we're going to see if the
baseline fully matches the Perf gap.
But even if it doesn't, like it
shouldn't match for any run like under
two hours. That doesn't make sense.
Reverse. No, bet. We're not [__] with
the end. Like, why the hell would we do
that? The point isn't to solve a [__]
maze. The point is to figure out the
algorithm.
God damn, this day
it's rough.
I don't think we need more testms, Jess.
I think we need to figure out what the
[__] is wrong with the uh the algorithm
design.
the fact that we're not even seeing like
crazy hyperparameter separation,
you know?
I mean there's some hyperparameter
separation, right?
I it could be that Jess,
but then like
I also don't understand how the baseline
does this well.
No, it's expected you don't really solve
47 by 47, dude.
like 250 mil,
that thing would just be really hard to
tune because you'd need to get some
signal to tune it with. Like for 250
mil, my expectation is that you
basically have to set the decay constant
to like
one or very close to one.
Um, and you probably have to mess with
like the checkpoint interval and stuff
cuz you're essentially you're going to
get one sample
and that's all you're going to get.
And then the problem is that they're
going to be enough mazes that like even
once you've learned a little bit from
that first maze, it's still probably
going to take you a crazy amount of time
to get the lucky second sample on a
different maze. So just like
Yeah, there's going to be a a 512 point
somewhere here.
I suppose that's interesting.
We'll check it after dinner.
And then tomorrow we'll have to think
about stuff again.
It did find the 512 here. You see
the 37 at 512.
Oh, which I guess if I just do like
this.
Come on.
I think the whole machine is just laggy.
I had too much stuff open.
an interesting data point regardless. I
suppose.
There is still quite a gap.
So, I don't know if it's just the
luckiness of the sweep.
We will see.
We're going to try some shorter
experiments tomorrow. We're going to
probably
depending on our results,
well, I think regardless of the results
at this point, we probably are going to
need to
come up with some variations on our
algorithm.
We're going to have to look at some
stuff for sure.
So, Jess, that basically it's it's
almost imposs. So, let me just explain
very quickly and then I'm going to call
it. Let me explain why that can't be the
case. Okay, so all that the original 40
prioritized replay can do is take your
existing data and upweight good data and
downweight bad data. That's all it can
do. It can never reuse the same data
more. Okay.
And of course, we have to wait for the
internet to not [__] up in order to
finish the explanation. should be good
now.
So, prioritized uh state sets can go
take whatever data was good and then get
you unlimited fresh on policy data for
that and for all the states around it.
It should be like a ludicrously
ludicrously powerful algorithmic upgrade
and there is essentially no way possible
to fake that through clever math.
Like this should be the godsend for RL.
So that's why.
All right. Yeah, GPT is [__] there.
Bet. Um,
okay though. Well, I do have to call it
there. I got to get to dinner. So, um,
thank you folks for tuning in today.
Sometimes research is tough. You know,
sometimes research is tough. Uh, you can
make it a little easier though and
support the project for free just by
starring Puffer on GitHub. I see we need
reached another 100 milestone. Thank you
very much.
This actually helps me out a ton and it
keeps me just doing this and streaming
the dev instead